Welcome to the 2014 Edition of the RAC Calendar [0], 1st Revision.

This calendar was originally inspired by advertisements for the ARRL printed
calendar [1].  Construction was greatly eased by the simple, deterministic
rules for locating future ARRL events (e.g.:  "the second weekend in June") [2]
and early availability of the "real" contest dates for the coming year allowed
these forecasted events to be checked for correctness.

To these events, major provincial and territorial holidays for most of Canada
were then added using information provided by Wikipedia® [4].  Other big events
such as the Dayton Hamvention® [3] also seemed appropriate to add in as well
and more contest dates soon followed [i], [j], [k], [l], [m], [n], [o].

Unless otherwise noted, all contest times are shown in UTC.  Where a contest
lasts more than 24 hours, there will be a "+1" or "+2" shown after the time to
denote the number of days, e.g.:  "19:00-03:59+2", which means the event begins
at 19:00 UTC on a given day and ends at 03:59 two days later.

Great care has been taken to ensure that there are as few errors as possible
but there may still be omissions and errata concerning provincial and
territorial holidays or other other major events of interest to Canadian
amateurs.  Readers are encouraged to submit feedback and corrections, in either
English or French, directly to <va3dgn@rac.ca> or to:

  RAC Calendar Comments
  Tyler Tidman VA3DGN
  c/o Radio Amateurs of/du Canada
  720 Belfast Road
  Suite 217
  Ottawa, Ontario
  K1G 0Z5
  Canada

Where applicable, to save space, the following ISO 3166 abbreviations were
used:

  AB Alberta
  BC British Columbia
  MB Manitoba
  NB New Brunswick
  NL Newfoundland and Labrador
  NS Nova Scotia
  NT Northwest Territories
  NU Nunavut, ᓄᓇᕗᑦ
  ON Ontario
  PE Prince Edward Island
  QC Quebec
  SK Saskatchewan
  YT Yukon
  US United States (of America)
  UK United Kingdom (of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)

This calendar was created on a computer running the Debian® GNU/Linux®
operating system [5], [6].  All the work was performed using royalty-free and
open-source software released under the GNU General Public License (GPL).  The
software tools used include the following:

  remind [7], for generating calendars from remind markup language
  rem2ps [7], for generating Postscript calendars from the output of remind
  inkscape [8], for drawing the SVG image overlays and for minor PDF file edits
  pdftk [9], for adding watermarks and playing with whole pages in PDF files
  GPL ghostscript [a], for the ps2pdf and pdf2ps conversion utilities
  GNU a2ps [b], for placing multi-page proofs onto a single page
  GNU sed [c], for processing multi-byte non-ASCII characters
  GNU bash [d], for handling all of the incantations made above
  GNU make [e], for automating nearly everything
  vim [f], for working with the remind markup and other text files
  git [g], for keeping a record of all the changes made
  LibreOffice [h], to typeset this note

References:
  [0] http://rac.ca
  [1] http://arrl.org/shop/2013-ARRL-Calendar
  [2] http://arrl.org/contest-calendar
  [3] http://hamvention.org
  [4] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_holidays_in_Canada
  [5] http://debian.org
  [6] http://linux.com
  [7] http://roaringpenguin.com/products/remind
  [8] http://inkscape.org
  [9] http://pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-the-pdf-toolkit
  [a] http://gnu.org/software/ghostscript
  [b] http://gnu.org/software/a2ps
  [c] http://gnu.org/software/sed
  [d] http://gnu.org/software/bash
  [e] http://gnu.org/software/make
  [f] http://vim.org
  [g] http://git-scm.com
  [h] http://libreoffice.org
  [i] http://cq160.com
  [j] http://cqwpxrtty.com
  [k] http://cqwpx.com
  [l] http://cqww-vhf.com
  [m] http://cqwwrtty.com
  [n] http://cqww.com
  [o] http://azscqrpions.com/fybo2009rules.html
  [p] http://www.farmersalmanac.com/astronomy/fullmoonnames.html

Dayton Hamvention® is a registered trademark of Dayton Amateur Radio
Association, Inc.  Debian® is a registered trademark of Software in the Public
Interest, Inc.  Linux® is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.  Wikipedia®
is a registered trademark of Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit
organization.  All GNU software and GPL licenses are © Free Software
Foundation, Inc.  The RAC logo is a registered trademark of Radio Amateurs
of/du Canada, Inc.

Ce calendrier est aussi disponible en français.

---

Bienvenue au 2014 édition du calendrier RAC [0], 1ier révision.

Ce calendrier a été inspiré par la publicité pour le calendrier imprimé par
ARRL [1].  La construction a été grandement facilitée par les règles simples et
déterministes pour localiser les événements ARRL dans le futur (p. ex.:  "le
deuxième weekend chaque juin") [2] et la disponibilité en avance des "vraies"
dates de concours pour l'année à venir a permis la vérification.

Pour ces événements, les grandes vacances provinciaux et territoriaux pour la
plupart du Canada ont ensuite été ajoutés à l'aide de l'information fourni par
Wikipedia® [4].  Autres grand événements comme le Dayton Hamvention® [3]
semblait également valide d'ajouter et plusieurs dates pour autres concours ont
bientôt suivi [i], [j], [k], [l], [m], [n], [o].

Sauf indication contraire, toutes les temps de concours sont présentés dans
UTC.  Lorsque la compétition dure plus de 24 heures, il y aura une "+1" ou "+2"
apparaît après le temps pour désigner le nombre de jours, p. ex.:
"19:00-03:59+2", qui signifie que l'événement commence à 19h00 UTC un jour
donné et se termine à 03h59 deux jours plus tard.

Un grand soin a été pris afin d'assurer qu'il y a des erreurs aussi peu que
possible, mais il peut encore y avoir des omissions et errata concernant les
vacances provinciaux et territoriaux ou autres événements majeurs d'intérêt
pour les amateurs canadiens.  Lecteurs sont encouragés à soumettre des
commentaires et des corrections, en anglais ou en français, directement à
<va3dgn@rac.ca> ou à:

  Commentaires pour le calendrier de RAC
  Tyler Tidman VA3DGN
  a/s Radio Amateurs of/du Canada
  720 Belfast Road
  Suite 217
  Ottawa, Ontario
  K1G 0Z5
  Canada

Le cas échéant, pour économiser l'espace, les abréviations ISO 3166 suivantes
ont été utilisées:

  AB Alberta
  BC Colombie-Britannique
  MB Manitoba
  NB Nouveau Brunswick
  NL Terre-Neuve-et-Labrador
  NS Nouvelle-Écosse
  NT Territoires du Nord-Ouest
  NU Nunavut, ᓄᓇᕗᑦ
  ON Ontario
  PE Île-du-Prince-Édouard
  QC Québec
  SK Saskatchewan
  YT Yukon
  US États-Unis (d'Amérique)
  UK Royaume-Uni (de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord)

Ce calendrier a été créé avec un ordinateur exécutant le système d'exploitation
Debian® GNU/Linux® [5], [6].  Tout le travail a été effectué en utilisant les
logiciels libres et open-source publié sous la licence GNU General Public
License (GPL).  Les outils logiciels utilisés sont les suivantes:

  remind [7], pour générer des calendriers en langage de balisage remind
  rem2ps [7], pour générer des calendriers Postscript à partir de remind
  inkscape [8], pour faire des mineures changements des fichiers PDF et SVG
  pdftk [9], pour jouer avec les pages entières dans les fichiers PDF
  GPL ghostscript [a], pour les outils de conversion ps2pdf et pdf2ps
  GNU a2ps [b], pour mettre plusieurs pages sur une seule page preuve
  GNU sed [c], pour le traitement des caractères multi-octets non-ASCII
  GNU bash [d], pour le traitement de toutes les incantations faites ci-dessus
  GNU make [e], pour automatiser presque tout
  vim [f], pour travailler avec le balisage remind et autres fichiers texte
  git [g], pour garder une trace de toutes les modifications apportées
  LibreOffice [h], pour composer cette note

Références:
  [0] http://rac.ca
  [1] http://arrl.org/shop/2013-ARRL-Calendar
  [2] http://arrl.org/contest-calendar
  [3] http://hamvention.org
  [4] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_holidays_in_Canada
  [5] http://debian.org
  [6] http://linux.com
  [7] http://roaringpenguin.com/products/remind
  [8] http://inkscape.org
  [9] http://pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-the-pdf-toolkit
  [a] http://gnu.org/software/ghostscript
  [b] http://gnu.org/software/a2ps
  [c] http://gnu.org/software/sed
  [d] http://gnu.org/software/bash
  [e] http://gnu.org/software/make
  [f] http://vim.org
  [g] http://git-scm.com
  [h] http://libreoffice.org
  [i] http://cq160.com
  [j] http://cqwpxrtty.com
  [k] http://cqwpx.com
  [l] http://cqww-vhf.com
  [m] http://cqwwrtty.com
  [n] http://cqww.com
  [o] http://azscqrpions.com/fybo2009rules.html
  [p] http://www.farmersalmanac.com/astronomy/fullmoonnames.html

Dayton Hamvention® est une marque déposée de Dayton Amateur Radio Association,
Inc.  Debian® est une marque déposée de Software in the Public Interest, Inc.
Linux® est une marque déposée de Linus Torvalds.  Wikipedia® est une marque
déposée de Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., une organisation à but non lucratif.
Tous les logiciels GNU et les licences GPL sont © Free Software Foundation,
Inc.  Le logo RAC est une marque déposée de Radio Amateurs of/du Canada, Inc.

This calendar is also available in English.
